# `ii-icrc1-tutorial`

Welcome to your new `ii-icrc1-tutorial` project and to the Internet Computer development community. This project is for a tutorial to guide you through the process of building a simple application on the Internet Computer that using Internet Identity for authentication and accepts ICRC-1 tokens for payment.

This is a blogging dapp that allows users to create posts and pay ICRC-1 tokens to be able to make more posts.

## Prerequisites

Before you can start building on the Internet Computer, you need to install the DFX command-line tool. You can find instructions on how to do this in the [SDK documentation](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/quickstart/quickstart-intro.html).

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor

### Canister methods

The canister exposes the following methods:

- `register`: Registers a new user. This method requires the user to be authenticated with Internet Identity.

- `getProfile`: Returns the profile of the authenticated user. This method requires the user to be authenticated with Internet Identity. This also returns the posts created by the user.

- `getUser`: Returns the profile of a user and the posts created by the user.

- `getPosts`: Returns a list of all posts.

- `createPost`: Creates a new post. Users with free plan can only create 5 posts. Users with elite plan can create 50 posts. Users with Legendary plan can create unlimited posts. This method requires the user to be authenticated with Internet Identity.

- `getPost`: Returns a post by id.

- `getPlans`: Returns the list of plans.

- `upgradePlan`: Upgrades the plan of the authenticated user. This method requires the user to be authenticated with Internet Identity.

```bash
dfx canister call ii-icrc1-tutorial-backend set_icrc1_token_canister  "(\"mxzaz-hqaaa-aaaar-qaada-cai\")"
```